hello mass funds I am incredibly excited
to announce a brand new series or I'm
going to be delving into the wild world
of GCSE maths now I definitely cannot do
this alone
and I'm going to need the help of a
secondary school teacher but fortunately
I know just the man
mr. Bobby Siegel ladies and gentlemen
[Applause]
the seagulls ready for action couldn't
be here without my co-host or the
podcast
[Music]
volumes of recognizable and after that
we have a shape that has three sides
triangle try and go there we're gonna go
for an equilateral one here it's got all
the same exactly good and then after
that we have a shape with many many many
many many many many things
well many sides are one side I'm gonna
be the main theatre I'm in the many
sides how many so yeah so we've got 40
dimensional shapes on the square
rectangle triangle circle so firstly in
order for us to get two volumes we've
got to build our foundations here so the
area of this shape all the sides are the
same length so you have one measurement
like one length yes and so it's that
meant times that length perfect gives
you the area so we're just if we call
that the base times the height you know
that Technic in same so base times the
height which actually this would be the
base times the base but we just call it
base times I'd yeah which would be the
same now the rectangle what we do here
to work out the area yeah but this time
it would be different yeah
so this particular one this is slider
front
how do you work out the area of a
triangle so I think of a triangle is
half of a square oh I like that half of
the square so the square is base times
height so a triangle is 1/2 base
absolutely yeah on this one here it's a
bit funky well watch the relation my
second-favorite
ii fit oh I think we're good what's your
what's your favorite number okay we'll
accept that
what's the second favorite number second
favorite spot first pie yep so these are
the four i'd say simple two-dimensional
shapes and we need these in order to
build up so we've got a triangle here
this one here it's flat so this is a
triangle base prison and a prison is a
shape that has the same almost like i
would say the same two-dimensional shape
all the way through so now these are the
slice of cheese everywhere no cheese yes
if I slice a bit of cheese in the middle
or the back or the top we'd all get the
same likes yeah so to work out the
volume of this what's the connection
in this shape and this potential yeah
both same area and then like you said
because we've moved into third yes or
the depth area of the triangle times the
depth so we've got a prism and we are
now going to move on to well based on
the 3d version of the square okay so
this looks like this so there we saw a
net on six squares
form together to make a cube so a cube
to work out the volume again it's the
area of the front section of course they
are you the front section here base
times height which is the same thing
exactly so just a squared Y squared and
this time what's the depth of the shape
yes we can okay yeah so would be that
it's time to highlight answer by the
depth but they're all the same so it's
just Q so that is the basics of volume
so as long as you have the area of the
front section the cross-section and we
know the depth of the height of the
shape we can work at the volume of any
[Music]
thank you for teaching us all about
volumes of 3d shapes Bobby yeah nice and
let that dance to go with the amazing so
I've been inspired to to sort of come up
with a way to remember the formulas that
you've taught us so but I want to start
off with trying to remind ourselves what
those are so we looked at the cube
attempt so you have a cube and we have
base we have the height which is also
equal to the base and the depth which is
also the same as the base so the volume
is going to be the height times the base
type of depth but they're all the same
so you could think of this it's just the
base times that's the way to remember it
but we biscuit base so then we have the
cuboid so if I draw again I attempt to
draw a cuboid so it was a rectangle in
extend so what are gonna be the three
measurements on this one so a base again
and height base and height yes and
they're gonna be different this time so
we have three different measurements so
we have three of the same what's rebus
gate base okay we have three different
measurements for our cuboid and then for
the cylinder what was the area for us
[Music]
the depth cooling the height the depth
of like the other sort of direction we
are stretching and circle perfect so
let's call it now the way I remember
these is to think about my three
favorite fictional chocolate bars so we
have the cube-shaped which is called the
chocolate cookie cube and what will
you'll hopefully notice we have the same
letter three times CCC so that reminds
you that you just measure one edge of
your cube and your volume is three times
C times C times C times by itself three
times chocolate cookie cube right just
the cuboid we have three different
measurements this time so my favorite
cuboid shaped fictional chocolate bar
this is a freezer nut cuboid yes so
you'll notice we now have three
different letters because there are
three different measurements so the
freaky Boyd has three different numbers
in it chocolate cookie cube has the one
x by itself three times and finally the
big one the rum and raisin cylinder pie
so can you explain to me why that is my
favorite cylindrical shaped chocolate
bar to us we haven't got R & R and what
do they represent oh where does the
radius where is it so we've got the
radius squared then silver the C
represents the other dimension that
exactly we have another different letter
which means another dimension the height
and Pi is PI razor so 2 pi so they are
all equally great I can't you know these
are my three phase one iq180 Clippers
it's also a great way to remember the
formulas for your volume I think you
should make these a breeze if you're
watching
[Music]
oh babe thank you for your wonderful
lesson on volumes of prisms and I was
thinking about area and stuff is great
and and got me thinking after but how do
we bring that console I can have me play
around with that you tell me what you
want so found on geogebra before
activity where we can look at the
volumes of different shapes so can you
all see on your gingerbread there are
three shapes what the shapes have you
got so far there in two dimensions I've
seen a triangle I think they're both
rectangles aren't there yeah
and so what to find the boy most of what
do you say that we need to have the
cross-sectional area that's a 2d shape
and then we stretch up so why do is if
we look into like the 2d area of the
earth you just can you see there's a
little H if we look at the small
rectangle the little hinge there as even
you can zoom up a key see it grows into
a cuboid take a little a little black
domine slide like a slider you actually
like you said you do exactly how you
described it you take your 2d shape and
you stretch it why is that minecraft so
to work out so we would like to think
about our different heights will be like
me is telling us what the different
volumes are mmm you up but then wait you
can also do this is to work out with the
areas of that rectangle and actually the
blue button at the side of the blue kind
of point means you can rotate and you
can work out the area of that rectangle
so you're just by looking at the squares
so what's the area of the rectangle six
squares six is six yes and so to be able
to see this property can you zoom up and
down B this looks a bit weird but if you
kind of do again on its side you
convinced us to see they do to kind of
ten
by two it becomes 12 the volume is 12
times by the depth forgetting or the
hind um yeah almost like she can play
around with that and again the same with
that on the rectangle and see the
relationship with the height and the
void of the height in the area is the
same and you can do the same with the
triangle so this thought was a really
nice way of like bringing a bit to life
and being able to play around with you
know a dynamic resource which kind of
makes this a much easier thing to
comprehend yeah very fun can you run
this for hours wait could can you get
the boys to be the same that's a
challenge guys
what what volleying are we aiming for
just any anything that's the same yeah
but what I'll do is I think I'll let you
play around with this and leave
[Music]
you